Date:
	September 9th 2016

Anchor:
  Hunstanton Sea Life

Right:
	P1000016.jpg

Text:
	We dropped off Tabs and Amelia (who hid in my cupboard as the spare room bed was shut) at
	''Grange Cattery''. This took longer than normal as there were roadworks in Waterbeach near the
	new housing being built on the old Army barracks there. It may be even slower next time
	as they're going to resurface the road to ''Grange Cattery'' - it is much needed as that track
	undulates beyond bumpiness. We got supplies at Tesco including a Chinese meal we enjoyed later
	in the garden at the [http://www.cottages.com/cottages/ringstead-cottage-24990 holiday cottage]
	in Ringstead.

	An easy drive there, the most stress came when parking the car in front of the garage for No. 5
	as I didn't see the number! The cottage was comfortable and well-appointed, a cosy lounge.
	We had to enter a number on a keypad to get the keys, using the keys was fiddly and the doors
	were a bit stiff. There was a bottle of wine left for us which we had a glass of to accompany the
	Chinese meal in our quiet evening in.

Left:
	P1000010.jpg

Text:
	A dismal start to the Saturday - the rain was heavy enough to wake me, and kept on pretty
	much relentlessly during the day. The bathroom mirror has a blue ghostly LCD clock in it,
	we couldn't' find the egg cups so had to improvise tearing up an egg box!

	Our first bit of tourism was the [Hunstanton Sea Life] aquarium where they branded us on our hands as
	having paid - the branding was readable the next day despite several acts of hand-washing.
	Sea Life wasn't that big, but a variety of stuff to see including creepy-crawlies and
	adorable otters. I almost lost the lens cap off my new camera and had to search for it.

Right:
	P1000014.jpg

Text:
	We also strayed to see an [Lestrange Old Barns] arts and crafts place which was hard to park at, and which was
	without a cafe and facilities we thought it might have. More interesting was the Village Stores
	across the road from our cottage which also sold old things, Virginia got a glass fruit bowl
	and two attractive cards there. We walked to see the [http://www.thegintrapinn.co.uk Gin Trap] pub to check out how far it was -
	an easy walk. Our meal there in the evening wasn't bad - friendly enough service and a
	popular place with people being turned away who hadn't booked. It got crowded later on with
	people in Scottish attire (but without Scottsh accents which was strange).

	Ironically Sunday, the day we returned to Histon, was bright and sunny. The roads were
	very busy with cars and motorcycles and scooters all headed somewhere, perhaps to a
	fair at Sandringham.
