Anchor:
  Longleat

Date:
	9th May 2009

Text:
	We were one of the first arrivals at Longleat on the Saturday, driving down a lovely avenue of blossoming trees and bushes, and got into the imposing house while the guides were still getting ready. The guides were very welcoming, what was a little disconcerting was that they moved between rooms each quarter of an hour, and we could see the same guide several times as we went round!

	From the outside the house is massive, but it is effectively four walls round a large empty central courtyard.  Longleat is partly about show, about displaying the silverware and Meissen porcelain, about the chronicle in canvas of the Thynnes (the owning family who date back to King Henry VIII's kitchen clerk.) These aristocrats have taste and appreciation as evidenced by the recent additions to the art on display. But the current Lord of Longleat comes over as a showman too, both privileged and trapped by his genealogy?

	We did a boat trip on a lake where one can see a poor elderly gorilla marooned on an island (but he does have satellite TV as a palliative.) Sea lions honked and hooted as they were fed by those of us on the boat. A pair of hippos kept their backs towards us, I wouldn't have noticed the grey lumps if they hadn't been pointed out! By the boat stage a colony of meerkats watched with undefinable and appealing expressions. We also did a mini-train journey round. We drove ourselves when we went to the Safari Park proper. Giraffes, camels, antelopes - the tigers and lions looked bored out of their skulls, but the wolves at least were roaming around. The monkey enclosure was closed so Virginia's car still has windscreen wipers.

	Some exercise was had walking up Cley Hill, site of an iron age hill fort. There's not much to see at the top past vague ridges and hillocks, but from the top one could see a reasonable way around. We found a good tea room called ''Jacqueline's Restaurant''
	in Warminster to eat in Saturday night, just hoped they had more business as we were their only patrons when we were there. The portions were ample, and the banana milkshake soothing. Did try to find a Chinese restaurant in Frome Friday night but failed pretty comprehensively!

Gallery:
	longleat_ginny.JPG
	Longleat House

	longleat_peter.JPG
	Longleat House

	longleat_garden.JPG
	Longleat House

	gorilla.JPG
	Gorilla marooned at Longleat

	visitor_train.JPG
	Longleat visitor train

	seal.JPG
	Seal being fed from visitor boat at Longleat

	meerkats.JPG
	Meerkats

	plinth.JPG
	Longleat gardens

	summer_house.JPG
	Longleat summer house
