Date:
	September 23rd 2014

Anchor:
  Venice
  
Text:
	I will remember Venice as the highlight of this cruise, and especially the
	enchanting ride on a gondola.  This really gave me an impression of Venice as an ancient city 
	with rills for roads. A city where you get around in a boat, where you might take a
	vaporetto rather than a taxi.  A city defined by water not by land.
	
	On our tour we saw the famous Bridge of Sighs which led to the prison, the
	[https://palazzoducale.visitmuve.it/en/home/ Doge's Palace]
	from which not only Venice was ruled but also the vast area Venice had dominion over
	when it was a city state.  We also trooped around [http://www.basilicasanmarco.it/ St Marks Basilica], from which the water
	had just receded.  As an organised tour we beat the massive queues in St Marks Square.
	There were seven cruise ships in and Venice was packed. People said this was the last
	time cruise ships could sail up the Grand Canal.

	We didn't however beat the dire massive queue to get back on board though, or the massive
	walk from where the shuttle boat dropped us off to the cruise terminal. The system just
	couldn't cope with the sheer numbers even without the Italians doing everything in their
	own time.
	
	Even back on board our problems weren't over - we were too late for proper food, the
	buffet was crowded and slow.  So we had a good lamb burger in the Glass House albeit
	it took ages to come.

Gallery:
	st_marks_square.JPG
	St Marks Square Venice from Azura sailing in
	
	bridge_of_sighs.JPG
	Bridge of Sighs in Venice

	lion.JPG
	Lion on pedestal at St Marks Square
	
	parties.JPG
	15 was our tour party
	
	doge_palace1.JPG
	Doge's Palace in Venice exterior

	doge_palace.JPG
	Doge's Palace interior
	
	denounce.JPG
	Where to post denunciations in the Doge's Palace
	
	venice_clock.JPG
	24-hour clock in Doge's Palace
	
	zodiac.JPG
	Zodiac clock in Doge's Palace
	
	gondolas1.JPG
	Gondolas for the gondola ride in Venice
	
	gondolas2.JPG
	Us on our gondola
	
	gondolier.JPG
	Our gondolier
	
	canal1.JPG
	Gondola ride

	canal2.JPG
	Gondola ride

	ristorante.JPG
	Gondola ride passing restaurant
	
	canal3.JPG
	Gondola ride on Grand Canal
	
	basilica.JPG
	St Marks Basilica in Venice
	

