Title:
	Buddha's birthday and Busan

Anchor:
  Unmunsa
  Jagalchi Market
  Lotte Department Store Busan
  Busan Tower
  
Date:
	May 14th 2016

Text:
	Buddha's birthday today and [http://www.unmunsa.or.kr/ Unmunsa Buddhist Nun's temple] was packed! But before that we
	stopped at a dammed Lake Unmun which cost hundreds of villagers their homes. It was dammed for
	irrigation. The coach got caught up in a massive tailback to the temple, and we had to
	settle for a 2km hike from where the coach could park. A pretty approach with
	flowers - perhaps the feminine touch. The faithful were washing statues of baby
	Buddha (apparently nine dragons gave him a wash when he was born), and buying more
	prayers to go on the colourful plastic lanterns hung around.

	The temple provide food for three thousands of their visitors on this day, there were
	many more there, we got given a goody bag of sweets and banana segment which was generous of
	them. Picturesque, but we had seen other Buddhist temples. It was jam packed. There was a
	kind of garden with Buddhist sculptures on which coins had lodged. I feel embarrassed being
	there as a tourist, somehow diluting the moment for the worshippers - perhaps though many
	were there for the experience not as devout believers.

	Onto a service station at Tongdosa where I had udon noodles with fried tofu - another job
	where you order at a counter and get a number. I also tried (with the guide's help)
	walnut balls which proved to be warm (best warm) pastry covered bean curd with walnut
	pieces in it. Tasty but I got more than I needed, my fellow tourists passed on them, the
	guide kindly had one. We drove to Busan, mostly on a motorway but partly on winding
	mountainous roads which the coach had problems - at one point we stalled trying to take a
	tight corner! An "oh no" moment.

	Reached Busan (a bustling large port city with modern shopping malls and hotels) and
	had an interesting trawl through the
	[Jagalchi fish market] there,
	more piscine prisoners on death
	row including the obscene looking sea slugs. One fish head was still vainly gasping for
	breath without its body. Such places are very vibrant, a lot for the eye to take in.
	We had to wait for the coach to arrive at a pedestrian area with a car park right in
	the middle of it - the car park attendants continually were clearing the pedestrians
	out of the way to let the cars in and out. We then went to
	[Busan Tower],
	obstructed by there being a pole vault event which meant roads had been closed -
	so we had another long climbing walk for our trip up to see very good views on this
	clear day over Busan. Then we walked to the
	[https://www.towerhill.co.kr/en-gb Tower Hill Hotel] (like the Commodore this has
	routers in each room) and waited for the coach to be able to reach us with our
	baggage. We only found one lift in the Tower Hill hotel to start with which was inconvenient.

	In the evening (it was in the evening when we eventually reached our rooms) I walked to the
	[Lotte Department Store Busan] and
	got too close to a Shabu Shabu bar, letting myself be talked into trying one of the
	dishes. What I didn't understand until too late was that you cooked the food yourself!
	Happily a very kind Korean lady schooled me in doing the necessary: you cook the
	vegetables first, they take longest - put soya sauce and spicy sauce into a container
	which also had kimchi and wasabi in it - the thin sliced ham cooks in a few seconds -
	when you're done eating that put in the noodles in my case (rice is quicker which
	she had) - turn off the cooking element and finish the noodles and then time to pay.
	Then walk back to the hotel using the underpass which leads to one of the underground
	shopping malls in Busan.

	The next day the tour ended with a motorway drive to Seoul from Busan which was straightforward,
	staying at the Aventree Hotel as before.
	Had a Croque Monsieur in the Cafe Oreum which was novel - ham as well. Got some washing done
	ready for the last few days - had the machines to myself. Torrential rain which drove me to
	the sin of frequenting Macdonalds in the evening out of desperation!

Image:
	unmun_lake.jpg
	The dammed Lake Unmun

	unmun_lake1.jpg
	Villages forced to move by the dam

	unmunsa.jpg
	Approach to Unmunsa Buddhist nun's temple

	unmunsa_gate.jpg
	Unmunsa gate

	unmunsa_tree.jpg
	Old tree at Unmunsa

	unmunsa2.jpg
	Lanterns at Unmunsa

	unmunsa_lanterns.jpg
	Lanterns at Unmunsa

	unmunsa3.jpg
	Washing baby Buddha at Unmunsa

	unmunsa4.jpg
	Elaborate panelling at Unmunsa

	unmunsa5.jpg
	Unmunsa Buddhist nun's temple

	unmunsa6.jpg
	Unmunsa Buddhist nun's temple

	unmunsa7.jpg
	Unmunsa Buddhist nun's temple

	unmunsa_f1.jpg
	Feeding the pilgrims on Buddha's birthday

	unmunsa_f2.jpg
	What each pilgrim gets

	unmunsa_f3.jpg
	The washers uppers ready

	unmunsa_shoes.jpg
	Shoes of the pilgrims

	unmunsa_statue.jpg
	Goddess of mercy with donations

	unmunsa_wash.jpg
	Ceremonial washing at Unmunsa

	tongdosa.jpg
	Tongdosa service station

	tongdosa_menu.jpg
	Tongdosa menu

	udon.jpg
	Udon and fried tofu

	jagalchi1.jpg
	Jagalchi fish market

	jagalchi2.jpg
	Jagalchi fish market

	jagalchi3.jpg
	One man band

	jagalchi4.jpg
	Jagalchi fish market

	jagalchi5.jpg
	Jagalchi fish market

	jagalchi6.jpg
	Jagalchi fish market

	jagalchi7.jpg
	Busan street

	busan_tower.jpg
	Busan Tower

	busan_tower2.jpg
	View from Busan Tower

	busan_tower3.jpg
	Dragon at Busan Tower

	busan_hotel.jpg
	Tower Hill Hotel at Busan

	busan_foot_massage.jpg
	What you can have done to your feet

	busan_mall.jpg
	Busan Mall

	shabu_shabu2.jpg
	Shabu Shabu restaurant in the mall

	shabu_shabu.jpg
	Shabu Shabu dish before self-cooking


