Title:
	First day of tour

Anchor:
  National Museum of Korea
  Seoul Tower
  Changdeokgung Palace
  Jongno Tower
  Gwangjang Market
  
Date:
	May 10th 2016

Text:
	The buffet breakfast (included in the holiday) was a mix of Western and Korean, there were only a fork
	and spoon on the tables so I first tried eating scrambled eggs and bacon without the aid of a knife.
	Later discovered there were knives to be had. I dozed off again afterwards as my body clock was out of
	kilter with Korean time. Only just made it downstairs to the start of the tour which proved to be a
	confused affair. We were a mixed group of Europeans, and to cope there were three guides for French
	German and the rest (English as lowest common denominator) on board. The French guide was great and
	gave a running commentary as the coach wrestled its way through the Seoul traffic to her group. But our
	English speaking guide didn't say anything - he was more voluble when we were on foot I will say and
	forthcoming then. The tour was haphazard, it wasn't clear what was going on at times.

	So we looked without understanding at one of the large US bases here, at pet shops with white pekingese
	in cages in the window, at rows of scooter shops, at Churches in this Asian land, at an odd monument
	which had Aztec like numbers on it. As the rain poured down as it did for most of this day. Our first
	stop, along with most of Korea's school children, was the
	[National Museum of Korea] - we raced through some of the
	exhibits in an hour where really a day wouldn't be enough. Then we and the school children met up
	with coach loads of Chinese for the [http://www.nseoultower.co.kr/eng/ Seoul Tower] in Namsan Park -
	on a fine day the views would have been impressive from the top of the tower. Still one could see a
	long way, and there were sweetshops at the top for the children. Namsan means South Mountain we were
	told - odd that Namsan in sound is so close to Nan Shan which would be the Chinese for South Mountain.

	We were dropped in a good location for something to eat - a kind couple from Germany took pity on me,
	and let me join them for a lunch of Bibimbap and dumplings. A decent place and it was great talking to
	them. In Korea they use red for female (yin) and blue for male (yang). Got some postcards on the way
	back to the coach then it was off to some exercise to wear off the meal at
	[http://cdg.go.kr/eng/ Changdeokgung Palace]. The walk around the Secret Garden was
	long (over two hours) and involved going up and down the hilly terrain this Royal garden is situated in.

	There is a lot to see there, pretty settings for ancient wood pavilions and halls, the pond in the
	shape of Korea, much photogenic like the young girls who had fitted themselves out in ancient costumes.
	Our guide said most would be visitors from China and Taiwan who fancied wearing Korean period costumes
	from watching Korean TV dramas.

	The tour rounded off with the day's highlight for me - a walk through the complicated matrix that is
	[http://english.visitkorea.or.kr/enu/SHP/SH_EN_7_2.jsp?cid=273761 Gwangjang Market].
	A miraculous collection of stalls selling food, many where you can sit and eat. Some
	stalls sell jiaozi for the Chinese customers now so common. There were also many stalls selling cloth, both
	for suits but also traditional dresses. Gwangjang Market isn't just a covered single arcade, at right
	angles we often saw it stretching out to be a lattice covering a vast area.

	With tired feet we arrived back at the Aventree Hotel and I made a big mistake. I thought I would
	find a Korean restaurant and try a local dish. So I walked out to take a good picture of the Jongno
	Tower with the circle of the top floors perched on three pillars. And then tried streets near the
	Aventree Hotel for a likely Korean restaurant where I could point at something on the menu.
	I summoned up courage and walked into a place which had a menu with pictures. I pointed at my choice
	(naengmyeon) and the waitress went away, returning with kimchi, some slices of vegetable, a hot
	looking condiment, mustard, a colourless sauce and a pair of scissors. I began trying the
	scissors on the kimchi but wasn't convinced that was the right answer. Eventually a bowl of
	noodle soup arrived and the waitress took pity on me, added some mustard and some of the
	colourless fluid into the soup, cut the noodles, then indicated I was to stir the concoction. It
	was when I began eating the soup that I realised by an unhappy mischance the soup was in fact
	iced noodle soup - either a real dish or they were working off some angst against Europeans.
	Not so hot in fact not hot at all!

	Eating out in South Korea is very cheap, so much so that it is competitive price-wise for eating at home.

Image:
	museum.jpg
	National Museum of Korea

	museum_crown.jpg
	Silla Crown in the museum

	museum_urns.jpg
	Funerary urns in the museum

	namsan_tower.jpg
	North Seoul Tower in Namsan Park

	namsan_tower_sweetshop.jpg
	Sweetshop at top of Tower

	seoul_costume_shop.jpg
	Costume shp in Seoul

	palace_entrance.jpg
	Entrance to Changdeokgung Palace

	palace.jpg
	Changdeokgung Palace

	palace_pavilions.jpg
	Palace pavilions

	palace_rooftop.jpg
	Creatures on pavilions roofs

	palace_lock.jpg
	Traditional lock

	palace_sundial.jpg
	Traditional sundial

	palace_markers.jpg
	Where to stand for officials of different ranks

	palace_throne.jpg
	Palace throne

	huwon_pond.jpg
	Secret Garden pond

	huwon_dressing_up.jpg
	Visitors dressing up

	huwon_library.jpg
	Secret Garden library

	huwon_map_pond.jpg
	Secret Garden pond in shape of Korea

	gwangjang1.jpg
	Gwangjang Market

	gwangjang_costume.jpg
	Costume shop in market

	gwangjang_fish.jpg
	Fish in market

	gwangjang_pancakes.jpg
	Korean pancakes in market

	gwangjang_shoes.jpg
	Market shop

	gwangjang_stall.jpg
	Food stall in market

	gwangjang_towels.jpg
	Towels in market

	gwangjang_veg.jpg
	Vegetables in market

	seoul_menu.jpg
	Seoul restaurant menu

	naengmyeon.jpg
	The frozen noodle soup


