Title:
	Cruise to see Norway and eclipse

Anchor:
  National Motor Museum, Beaulieu
  
Date:
	March 9th 2015

Text:
	We checked out of the [Holiday Inn Southampton City] hotel (&pound;7 to rescue the car from the car park,
	another incentive to not use that hotel), then had breakfast at the nearby
	[Frankie and Bennys Southampton].
	We were the only patrons there, nice and relaxed, Virginia chose best with her
	sausage muffin rather than my Eggs Benedict. The restaurant had a machine you entered your licence plate into for
	the Leisure World car park.

	We then trusted our Satnav again to get us to [https://www.beaulieu.co.uk/ Beaulieu].
	As luck would have it the attraction was infested with school children. We admired
	the vintage cars and recreated period shops, a Chitty Bang Bang car from the film.
	Virginia braved the vintage monorail system too, and we saw the staff in costume at the
	Palace House (period kitchen, portraits on walls, stuffed birds), dipped into the
	Abbey, and had soup at the Brabazon Restaurant. Worth visiting once.

	Time to venture to the cruise terminal. A confusing process of stop car in one place,
	lose the luggage, then guess one was meant to move the car to another place where one handed over
	car keys in exchange for a piece of paper. Impressively our luggage all made to our cabin
	before us (thanks to our cabin stewardess Atitaya), often we get on board and worry if
	we will see our suitcases again. Things got better as the cruise terminal was being
	improved, and we were actually processed all crammed together in a temporary tent.
	The chairs all touched so you felt it as someone else sat down. A labyrinthine process
	of checking in and security culminated in a walk through a real labyrinth of
	colourful plastic sheeting and glass and metal. Which happily ended on board the ship!

	The cheerful and helpful staff, lined up by the lifts, guided us to our cabin 4050 which
	atavistically has portholes (quite heavy to manipulate). Plenty of coat hangers though we
	didn't find them at first. Plenty of seats at the muster drill, I did wonder if
	the ship wasn't completely full as often at muster drills there doesn't seem to be
	enough space. Next event was the first sitting for dinner in the Four Seasons
	restaurant.  We met our dining companions Roy and Margaret and Shirley and Barbara
	who made a a good table to be on. One of the plusses of the Boudicca being a smaller ship is
	we more often bumped into them onboard.

	Went to the Neptune Lounge for the resident theatre company to dance and sing
	songs by Queen, Elton John, etc.  They were lively and energetic and not pretentious. The
	Neptune Lounge isn't ideal for shows as few people have a clear view of the stage.
	On the Fred Olsen ships a lot of the music and sound desk is done by non-Europeans
	who are also the waiters and cabin stewards. To me they're just as good as Europeans.

Image:
	soton_hi.JPG
	Holiday Inn in Southampton where we stayed overnight

	beau_cars.JPG
	Beaulieu Motor Museum

	beau_chitty.JPG
	Chitty Chitty Bang Bang car

	beau_caravan.JPG
	Royal Caravan

	beau_monorail.JPG
	Monorail round Beaulieu

	beau_gardens.JPG
	Approach to Palace House at Beaulieu

	beau_house1.JPG
	Palace House

	beau_house2.JPG
	Palace House

	beau_kitchen.JPG
	Palace House kitchen

	soton_laby1.JPG
	Labyrinth to board the Boudicca

	soton_laby2.JPG
	Labyrinth to board the Boudicca

	soton_laby3.JPG
	Labyrinth to board the Boudicca

	soton_laby4.JPG
	Labyrinth to board the Boudicca

	soton_laby5.JPG
	Labyrinth to board the Boudicca

	soton_laby6.JPG
	Labyrinth to board the Boudicca

	boud_gangway.JPG
	Gangway to board Boudicca in port

	boud_entry.JPG
	Entrance to Boudicca

	boud_promenade.JPG
	Boudicca promenade deck

	boud_promenade2.JPG
	Boudicca promenade deck

	boud_bow.JPG
	Boudicca's bow (the front bit)

	boud_bow2.JPG
	Boudicca's bow

	boud_lifeboat.JPG
	Boudicca lifeboat

	boud_winch.JPG
	Winch

