Date:
	January 26th 2020

Title:
	Wet behind the ears

Text:
  This day I got baptised as an adult, by total immersion as it is put. Which describes it well
  as I got toally wet. I had been christened as an infant, long long ago now. One reason
  I didn't get baptised as an adult was that my parents, well my mother wouldn't have
  appreciated it. She didn't like it when my sister got baptised in her university years.
  Both our parents are now no longer with us so I no longer had that excuse.
  
  I didn't decide to be christened, and I wasn't aware of being christened at the time.
  But a lot of us who would call themselves Christian do so because that is what
  they have been culturally brought up as. So to call oneself a Christian in this case
  is to accept your
  upbringing, even though you didn't get to choose your upbringing. So in a sense I
  was happy to accept having christened even though I was not aware at the time.
  
  I did worry about what to say, the expectation is you will say something
  when you get baptised which is called giving your testimony. The ideal testimony
  follows the apostle Paul and his Damascus Road experience. The true saints are able to
  tell you down to the second when they made the decision to give their lives to Jesus.
  I am a gradualist in many things, and for me faith is a process not a one-off
  operation. I'm not alone in this.
  
  I ran over various ideas beforehand. Almost on the spur of the moment
  I found words to say that I was happy to say yet satisfied those listening. I was
  bemused to hear people saying they appreciated what I had to say as I thought it
  was rather fuzzy and woolly.

  Getting baptised itself was unusual. Being pushed backwards under water is not
  something I'm used to, or was looking forward to. For some people it is a
  spiritual moment but for me the mechanics of the baptism dominated my thoughts.
  Would I resist being pushed under water? Would my feet go up in the air? Would I
  remember to not wear my watch and phone?
  
  Did it change me myself? No, but it was something I needed to do for
  completeness, for harmony.

Image:
  baptism1.jpg
  A testimony of sorts
  
  baptism2.jpg
  The answer is yes
  
  baptism3.jpg
  I get dunked
  
  baptism4.jpg
  Damp all over but alive
