Anchor:
  Cologne Cathedral
  
Icon:
  DSCF4661.JPG
  
Date:
	14th October 2013

Text:
	Most of us had advanced our clocks
	so we made breakfast before re-boarding our blue coach.  The plates
	for breakfast were rectangular with 3 sections, the scrambled eggs
	didn't taste quite right to me.  We crossed
	from France into Belgium, an event marked by a sign with 12 stars
	and mobile phones receiving welcome texts as they changed to cells
	in a new country.  I did manage to doze on the coach making up some
	sleep, despite the roads in Belgium being less well maintained.
	Stopped at a smelly and child-infested services in Belgium (toilets
	free anyway) before resuming our odyssey to Germany.  We stopped
	again to allow the gold coach to get to the boat first, and by now
	the sun was in evidence!

	This second stop near Cologne allowed the Zoll (German road tax
	officers) to pounce and check we were legal.  Apparently
	an accountant of [https://www.nationalholidays.com National Holidays]
	bungled paying the tax, and the German Zoll impounded a coach
	leaving drivers and passengers high and dry!

	We boarded the [http://www.transriverline.com/our-ships/mv-virginia/ MV Virginia]
	safely, not being given the cabin we had booked.  Cabin not very wide,
	twin beds.  At lunchtime had to make a big decision - what table should
	we sit at?  Where we choose to sit would be where we sat for all the
	meals which followed.  A decision I felt reluctant to make!  We sat
	with Mary and Raymond and Brenda and Dennis who were nice and friendly
	people, in fact everyone on the cruise was pleasant.  Everyone apart from
	Virginia and I seemed to be retired.  I knocked over my water that
	lunchtime but managed to avoid a repeat performance.  The restaurant was
	on the lowest deck and weirdly the bottom of the windows was at the ship's
	waterline.  It would have freaked me out to have a cabin on that deck!

	After lunch we wandered to see the [https://www.koelner-dom.de/index.php?id=19167&L=1 Dom] (cathedral) in Cologne,
	a Catholic church with stylish modern looking stained glass and arrays
	of hard to photograph flickering candles.  The outside of the Dom looks
	dark and gothic and massive.  We also saw a curious artificial stream
	with stepping stones in concrete, and some of old style Cologne where
	the outside cafes were putting blankets on chairs so patrons could
	wrap up if they felt cold!

	Dinner was four courses, the main having chicory smothered in cheese sauce, 
	I guessed leek and others aubergine.  Again to my surprise at certain times
	beer and wine and soft drinks were free on the ship, including dinner 
	time.  Entertainment in the lounge bar area was a well-built guy playing
	an electronic keyboard - a medley of Sinatra and other similar tunes.
	He was Eastern European as were a lot of the staff on the boat.

Gallery:
	DSCF4651.JPG
	Restaurant on the MV Virginia
	
	DSCF4702.JPG
	Water at waist height in the MV Virginia's restaurant
	
	DSCF4652.JPG
	Our hallway on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4653.JPG
	Virginia in our cabin

	DSCF4654.JPG
	Me in our cabin

	DSCF4655.JPG
	Library on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4684.JPG
	Top deck on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4686.JPG
	Bridge on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4687.JPG
	Lounge bar on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4695.JPG
	Our bathroom

	DSCF4659.JPG
	They know their ropes on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4661.JPG
	The Cathedral in Cologne

	DSCF4665.JPG
	Inside the Cologne Cathedral

	DSCF4666.JPG
	Inside the Cologne Cathedral

	DSCF4667.JPG
	Modernist looking stained glass in the Cologne Cathedral

	DSCF4669.JPG
	Inside the Cologne Cathedral

	DSCF4674.JPG
	Stream and stepping stones in the concrete age

	DSCF4680.JPG
	Blankets on seats for the outside diner

	DSCF4681.JPG
	Photogenic buildings in old Cologne

	DSCF4697.JPG
	Aft view cruising up the Rhine

	DSCF4698.JPG
	Bow view cruising up the Rhine
