Title:
	A cruise up and down the Rhine

Anchor:
  Cologne Cathedral
  Koblenz
  Rudesheim
  Ahrweiler
  Maasmechelen Village
  
Icon:
	DSCF4681.JPG

Date:
	13th October 2013

Text:
	It was unearthly quiet on the Saturday (12th) 
	when we had dropped Tabitha and Amelia
	off at the Country Cattery in Waterbeach, at the end of a long
	one car wide rippling road.  It always feels like
	betrayal abandoning them to be in a cage while we're away.
	But it did simplify packing the cases and getting
	ready for an earlier start on the Sunday than I usually
	have.

	Sunday was pouring it down everywhere we went, the [https://www.panthertaxis.co.uk/ Panther] taxi
	came promptly at 9am which I was disappointed at.  Even with what
	seemed to me like a scenic tour through Cambridge we arrived at
	the coach stop opposite the [Arundel House Hotel] with nearly an hour to
	stand in the downpour until the coach was due to come!  Virginia found
	a bus shelter not too far away, but happily the 
	[Shearings] feeder coach was running well ahead of time and arrived about
	9.30am.  She had booked a 'Rhine Inclusive Cruise' on the 
	[https://www.shearings.com/our-holidays/river-cruises/our-ships/mv-virginia MV Virginia] so we could sample a river cruise as opposed to the ocean
	cruises we've done.

	We drove down the M11 to 60s 70s hits like "Space Oddity" and
	"Pinball Wizard" and "Sunny Afternoon" and "I'll Never Fall
	In Love Again".  There was plenty of leg-room in the gold coloured
	Setra coach - sadly we got blue-coloured Setra coaches after that
	which have more seats squeezed into them, and so not enough leg-room.
	There's a lot of organisation behind what Shearings do, and a lot of
	people backing it all up.  Sometimes the best-laid plans don't work out,
	we stopped at Thurrock for six more passengers but the taxi
	bringing four of them had broken down.  So we set off to Shearings
	[Hythe Interchange] base and had
	a burger before changing to a different Shearings coach, our tour
	bus for the 'Rhine Inclusive Cruise' driven by a guy called Vance.  
	I wondered about how Vance and the tour guide June and the
	staff on the MV Virginia handle their (to me) strange lifestyle,
	the strange pattern of days.

	A short run to [http://www.doverport.co.uk Dover port] where
	a French customs officer came onto the coach to make sure we 
	hadn't forgotten our passports.  The port staff directed us and
	other vehicles onto the P&O ferry while trying to stop a trio of
	French students who were trying to sneak on the ferry by 
	hitch-hiking.  We found a good place to sit at on the ferry and
	I started my intense session of reading Edgar Wallace novels on
	the iPad.  I got through nearly twenty in all by the end of the
	holiday.  

	Vance drove us through a sodden and depressing looking France
	to the [Novotel Lille hotel] at Lille Aeroport.  Room not bad though it felt odd to
	me having a separate toilet and bathroom.  They gave us a decent
	3 course meal with cloying chocolate pudding as the coup de grace.
	The other (gold) coach of the two for the 'Rhine Inclusive Cruise' stopped
	at a better hotel - at that stage the people on board seemed to
	have benefitted from booking later.

	The next day (Monday the 14th) most of us had advanced our clocks
	so making breakfast before re-boarding our blue coach.  The plates
	for breakfast were rectangular with 3 sections, the scrambled eggs
	didn't taste quite right to me.  We crossed
	from France into Belgium, an event marked by a sign with 12 stars
	and mobile phones receiving welcome texts as they changed to cells
	in a new country.  I did manage to doze on the coach making up some
	sleep, despite the roads in Belgium being less well maintained.
	Stopped at a smelly and child-infested services in Belgium (toilets
	free anyway) before resuming our odyssey to Germany.  We stopped
	again to allow the gold coach to get to the boat first, and by now
	the sun was in evidence!

	This second stop near Cologne allowed the Zoll (German road tax
	officers) to pounce and check we were legal.  Apparently
	an accountant of [https://www.nationalholidays.com National Holidays]
	bungled paying the tax, and the German Zoll impounded a coach
	leaving drivers and passengers high and dry!

	We boarded the [http://www.transriverline.com/our-ships/mv-virginia/ MV Virginia]
	safely, not being given the cabin we had booked.  Cabin not very wide,
	twin beds.  At lunchtime had to make a big decision - what table should
	we sit at?  Where we choose to sit would be where we sat for all the
	meals which followed.  A decision I felt reluctant to make!  We sat
	with Mary and Raymond and Brenda and Dennis who were nice and friendly
	people, in fact everyone on the cruise was pleasant.  Everyone apart from
	Virginia and I seemed to be retired.  I knocked over my water that
	lunchtime but managed to avoid a repeat performance.  The restaurant was
	on the lowest deck and weirdly the bottom of the windows was at the ship's
	waterline.  It would have freaked me out to have a cabin on that deck!

	After lunch we wandered to see the [https://www.koelner-dom.de/index.php?id=19167&L=1 Dom] (cathedral) in Cologne,
	a Catholic church with stylish modern looking stained glass and arrays
	of hard to photograph flickering candles.  The outside of the Dom looks
	dark and gothic and massive.  We also saw a curious artificial stream
	with stepping stones in concrete, and some of old style Cologne where
	the outside cafes were putting blankets on chairs so patrons could
	wrap up if they felt cold!

	Dinner was four courses, the main having chicory smothered in cheese sauce, 
	I guessed leek and others aubergine.  Again to my surprise at certain times
	beer and wine and soft drinks were free on the ship, including dinner 
	time.  Entertainment in the lounge bar area was a well-built guy playing
	an electronic keyboard - a medley of Sinatra and other similar tunes.
	He was Eastern European as were a lot of the staff on the boat.

	On the Tuesday (15th) it was an odd day so sausages rather than
	bacon on offer for breakfast.  I didn't sleep well, there was 
	activity on past midnight and the cabin walls were thin so I could
	hear snoring from our neighbours.  The MV Virginia had set off at
	5am to get to Koblenz from Cologne, disturbing when the engines
	fired up early in the morning.  The boat is quite old, built nearly
	50 years ago.

	We reached Koblenz early afternoon, June our tour guide giving a
	running commentary as we floated past ruined castles and pretty
	churches and vineyards on steep hill slopes.  As I watched them
	taking on water for the ship it struck me it wasn't so different
	from being on the Broads, only bigger.  The ships still need pumping
	out, still need to take on water, still need to find moorings.
	Virginia and I wandered round Koblenz on our own, seeing an odd
	layered [https://www.koblenz-touristik.de/kultur/plaetze-in-koblenz/goerresplatz.html fountain] representing different ages.
 
	During the evening meal Dennis set me puzzles which I disappointed
	him by answering.  They were enigmas I had come across before like
	the coin swapping where you have only one free space.  We also 
	admired the medals on three WW2 veterans who were on the cruise -
	I couldn't stand it when they were loudly rerunning WW2 in the
	lounge area.  There was a raffle and Virginia won the first prize
	of Kir champagne - we almost never win things.  We weren't sure 
	what to do with our prize, whether we could bring it back home.

	Another early start on Wednesday (16th) to get down to Rudesheim.
	Our bathroom smells a bit, and the water gurgles as if it's trying 
	to get back up the shower drain.  Rudesheim is very pretty, and
	cosier than the cities.  I posted some postcards in a yellow 
	postbox, and we wandered round a toy museum and a Christmas 
	ornament shop (better).  In the evening had an excursion by land
	train to see 
	[https://www.smmk.de/pages/de/willkommen.php Siegfried's Mechanical Music Cabinets]
	museum which was the highlight of the tour.  A peek back at how
	time was.  We skipped the wine tasting.

	On Thursday (17th) we started our way back down the Rhine,
	dropping into Andernach where we had an excursion to the walled
	town of Ahrweiler.  Very pretty with a range of olden architectural
	styles.  We had a German guide Toni who was very good.
	On the way we went through a village with loads of
	skulls and crossbones signs - evidently the villagers are
	demanding a bypass and capturing coaches in protest.  They were
	happily taking a rest that day.

	And so we came to Friday (18th) and time sadly to say goodbye
	to the people we had met.  Vance our blue coach driver took us
	to the naff [https://www.maasmechelenvillage.com/nl/home Maasmechelen]
	shopping village.  Hard to find anywhere to eat, and the kind of stores
	which pay the stars who advertise their wares more than the
	sweatshops making them.  But it was a mandatory stop
	apparently.  We stopped at another Novotel Hotel
	[Novotel Valenciennes], a clone almost of the one at Lille.  This time
	the gold coach with the late bookers fared much worse - the manager
	walked out apparently of their hotel because of having to deal
	with two coaches leaving a poor girl to do everything. 
	
	Saturday (19th) we had a relatively short trip to Calais after some
	frozen scrambled eggs for breakfast, took 
	a long time to get through British passport control, then onto a
	big car ferry where one queued ages for food and then couldn't find 
	anywhere good to sit.  Back to the Hythe interchanges and goodbye to
	Vance, I should have tipped him more or not at all, never judge these
	things well.  Virginia and I found ourselves on a feeder coach with just
	six passengers on it!  Absurd.  The Satnav broke down and the driver
	had to get it exchanged at Birchanger services.  He kindly dropped
	us within walking distance of our front door, meaning we didn't need
	to get a taxi home!

	Would we do this again?  Not as it stands.  The scenery was
	pretty, our fellow passengers agreeable, but I found it very
	hard to sleep (easier when the engines were going).  The four days
	we spent getting to and fro the cruise itself were tedious and
	arduous.
  
Gallery:
	DSCF4640.JPG
	Cats at Country Cattery

	DSCF4641.JPG
	A gold coach

	DSCF4645.JPG
	Blue coaches ready for the tours

	DSCF4643.JPG
	Shearings Hythe Interchange

	DSCF4648.JPG
	Novotel at Lille

	DSCF4651.JPG
	Restaurant on the MV Virginia
	
	DSCF4702.JPG
	Water at waist height in the MV Virginia's restaurant
	
	DSCF4652.JPG
	Our hallway on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4653.JPG
	Virginia in our cabin

	DSCF4654.JPG
	Me in our cabin

	DSCF4655.JPG
	Library on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4684.JPG
	Top deck on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4686.JPG
	Bridge on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4687.JPG
	Lounge bar on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4695.JPG
	Our bathroom

	DSCF4659.JPG
	They know their ropes on the MV Virginia

	DSCF4661.JPG
	The Cathedral in Cologne

	DSCF4665.JPG
	Inside the Cologne Cathedral

	DSCF4666.JPG
	Inside the Cologne Cathedral

	DSCF4667.JPG
	Modernist looking stained glass in the Cologne Cathedral

	DSCF4669.JPG
	Inside the Cologne Cathedral

	DSCF4674.JPG
	Stream and stepping stones in the concrete age

	DSCF4680.JPG
	Blankets on seats for the outside diner

	DSCF4681.JPG
	Photogenic buildings in old Cologne

	DSCF4697.JPG
	Aft view cruising up the Rhine

	DSCF4698.JPG
	Bow view cruising up the Rhine

	DSCF4703.JPG
	MV Virginia docked in Koblenz

	DSCF4706.JPG
	Koblenz buildings

	DSCF4707.JPG
	Closeup of figure on wall

	DSCF4709.JPG
	Koblenz buildings
	
	DSCF4715.JPG
	Old mooring bollard in Koblenz?

	DSCF4719.JPG
	Lahnstein Castle is a cable car ride away

	DSCF4722.JPG
	Church in Koblenz

	DSCF4724.JPG
	History fountain in Koblenz

	DSCF4728.JPG
	Trains along side of Rhine - vineyards on the hills

	DSCF4731.JPG
	Building in Rudesheim

	DSCF4732.JPG
	Building in Rudesheim

	DSCF4736.JPG
	Building in Rudesheim

	DSCF4745.JPG
	Virginia outside Christmas shop in Rudesheim

	DSCF4746.JPG
	Drosselgasse street in Rudesheim

	DSCF4734.JPG
	German post box
	
	DSCF4743.JPG
	German public toilet
	
	DSCF4750.JPG
	Toy museum in Rudesheim

	DSCF4752.JPG
	Siegfried's Mechanical Music Cabinets museum

	DSCF4753.JPG
	Siegfried's Mechanical Music Cabinets museum

	DSCF4754.JPG
	Siegfried's Mechanical Music Cabinets museum

	DSCF4756.JPG
	Siegfried's Mechanical Music Cabinets museum

	DSCF4762.JPG
	Ahrweiler town gates

	DSCF4764.JPG
	Street in Ahrweiler

	DSCF4770.JPG
	Building in Ahrweiler

	DSCF4771.JPG
	Decorated window in Ahrweiler

	DSCF4774.JPG
	Church in Ahrweiler

	DSCF4775.JPG
	Garage door in Ahrweiler

	DSCF4776.JPG
	Garage door closeup in Ahrweiler

	DSCF4779.JPG
	Inside the church in Ahrweiler

	DSCF4781.JPG
	Inside the church in Ahrweiler

	DSCF4783.JPG
	Repel the demons sign

	DSCF4784.JPG
	Our guide Toni for Ahrweiler

	DSCF4787.JPG
	Virginia at the Maasmechelen Chic Shopping Centre

	DSCF4790.JPG
	Cow outside Novotel in Valenciennes
