Title:
	Koblenz and Rudesheim

Anchor:
  Cologne Cathedral
  Koblenz
  Rudesheim
  
Date:
	15th October 2013

Text:
	On the Tuesday (15th) it was an odd day so sausages rather than
	bacon on offer for breakfast.  I didn't sleep well, there was 
	activity on past midnight and the cabin walls were thin so I could
	hear snoring from our neighbours.  The MV Virginia had set off at
	5am to get to Koblenz from Cologne, disturbing when the engines
	fired up early in the morning.  The boat is quite old, built nearly
	50 years ago.

	We reached Koblenz early afternoon, June our tour guide giving a
	running commentary as we floated past ruined castles and pretty
	churches and vineyards on steep hill slopes.  As I watched them
	taking on water for the ship it struck me it wasn't so different
	from being on the Broads, only bigger.  The ships still need pumping
	out, still need to take on water, still need to find moorings.
	Virginia and I wandered round Koblenz on our own, seeing an odd
	layered [https://www.koblenz-touristik.de/kultur/plaetze-in-koblenz/goerresplatz.html fountain] representing different ages.
 
	During the evening meal Dennis set me puzzles which I disappointed
	him by answering.  They were enigmas I had come across before like
	the coin swapping where you have only one free space.  We also 
	admired the medals on three WW2 veterans who were on the cruise -
	I couldn't stand it when they were loudly rerunning WW2 in the
	lounge area.  There was a raffle and Virginia won the first prize
	of Kir champagne - we almost never win things.  We weren't sure 
	what to do with our prize, whether we could bring it back home.

	Another early start on Wednesday (16th) to get down to Rudesheim.
	Our bathroom smells a bit, and the water gurgles as if it's trying 
	to get back up the shower drain.  Rudesheim is very pretty, and
	cosier than the cities.  I posted some postcards in a yellow 
	postbox, and we wandered round a toy museum and a Christmas 
	ornament shop (better).  In the evening had an excursion by land
	train to see 
	[https://www.smmk.de/pages/de/willkommen.php Siegfried's Mechanical Music Cabinets]
	museum which was the highlight of the tour.  A peek back at how
	time was.  We skipped the wine tasting.
  
Gallery:
	DSCF4703.JPG
	MV Virginia docked in Koblenz

	DSCF4706.JPG
	Koblenz buildings

	DSCF4707.JPG
	Closeup of figure on wall

	DSCF4709.JPG
	Koblenz buildings
	
	DSCF4715.JPG
	Old mooring bollard in Koblenz?

	DSCF4719.JPG
	Lahnstein Castle is a cable car ride away

	DSCF4722.JPG
	Church in Koblenz

	DSCF4724.JPG
	History fountain in Koblenz

	DSCF4728.JPG
	Trains along side of Rhine - vineyards on the hills

	DSCF4731.JPG
	Building in Rudesheim

	DSCF4732.JPG
	Building in Rudesheim

	DSCF4736.JPG
	Building in Rudesheim

	DSCF4745.JPG
	Virginia outside Christmas shop in Rudesheim

	DSCF4746.JPG
	Drosselgasse street in Rudesheim

	DSCF4734.JPG
	German post box
	
	DSCF4743.JPG
	German public toilet
	
	DSCF4750.JPG
	Toy museum in Rudesheim

	DSCF4752.JPG
	Siegfried's Mechanical Music Cabinets museum

	DSCF4753.JPG
	Siegfried's Mechanical Music Cabinets museum

	DSCF4754.JPG
	Siegfried's Mechanical Music Cabinets museum

	DSCF4756.JPG
	Siegfried's Mechanical Music Cabinets museum
