Date:
	21 May 2002

Anchor:
  Green Island
  Cairns
  Kuranda

Text:
	My Australian holiday started with a week in Far North Queensland (FNQ for short.) The flight from Singapore landed at Brisbane first, and then flew up the coast in the early dawn to ''Cairns''.  Unearthly views from the air of the green splashes of the Great Barrier Reef.

	The day I arrived I did a half-day tour to [https://greenisland.com.au/ Green Island]. Green Island is an island on the Great Barrier Reef accessible by a half-day tour from Cairns. We went there by catamaran which had engine problems at one point. Crew-member Chelsea snapped away then wanted to sell the results. There's coconut trees on Green Island planted for the benefit of marooned sailors. A highlight of the trip was a 'cruise' on a sem-submersible to see the coral and fish.

	Cairns is like a small American city undecided whether it wants to be backpackerland or art gallery centre. It feels new and is laid out on a grid plan. Well patronised by Japanese tourist parties as well as by backpackers. After the crush of people and buildings in Singapore Cairns felt barely populated. And Cairns was the biggest city I visited in Australia. I felt I stood in the nomansland between 'civilisation' and 'wilderness'.

	I dined in a restaurant along the esplanade on a dish combining barramundi, kangaroo, and crocodile. Crocodile is white and stringy if you were curious. I thought I had better establish between me and the crocodiles who was going to eat whom. But I didn't go swimming in any billabongs to give the salties a chance.

	I came to Cairns because of the rainforest habitat. Sadly most of the rainforest has been wasted into wastelands of sugar-cane. Ironically the sugar-cane farmers are going out of business.

	Besides the rainforest you can take in the [https://www.tjapukai.com.au/ Tjapukai Aboriginal Centre] and learn about the aborigines of this area (different to say the Red Centre.) Weird sight when you see the Aboriginal dance group head off in costume to have a coke or a fag. There's a good cable-car ride from Cairns up to ''Kuranda'' over the rainforest, and then one can ride the train back. I sat the wrong side and mainly saw rock faces. Kuranda is a bit of a souvenir shopping area, does have a butterfly centre.
  
Gallery:
  green_sign.JPG
  Start of Green Island tour

  catamaran.JPG
  Catamaran to Green Island

  catamaran_bow.JPG
  Catamaran head on view

  beach.JPG
  Green Island beach

  island_sign.JPG
  Green Island sign

  semisub.JPG
  Semi-submersible at Green Island

  sub_inside.JPG
  Semi-submersible interior

  fish.JPG
  View of fish from semi-submersible

  coral.JPG
  View of coral

  more_coral.JPG
  View of more coral

  clam.JPG
  A giant clam!

  mynahs.JPG
  Mynahs in Cairns

  coast.JPG
  Cairns coast

  sugarcane.JPG
  Sugar-cane fields

  cable_car1.JPG
  Start of Skyway to Kuranda

  cable_car2.JPG
  Kuranda Skyway

  hartshorn.JPG
  Hartshorn

  kuranda_hills.JPG
  Kuranda hills

  kuranda_river.JPG
  Kuranda river

  kuranda_train1.JPG
  Kuranda train back to Cairns

  kuranda_train2.JPG
  Train stop

  kuranda_falls.JPG
  Falls along the train-ride
