Date:
	August 31st 2018

Title:
	The ship

Image:
  ship3.jpg
  Columbus ship
  
Text:
	What shall we say about the good and bad ship [Columbus]?

  The muster drill started the cruise off badly for us - unlike any other
  cruise we've been on they held it on the promenade deck, making us stand for ages
  by the open edge of the ship which wasn't acceptable to Virginia. I felt it
  didn't teach anything so much as just tick some administrative box.

  Our cabin was a decent size, and well provided with drawers and hanging space. There
  was a UK electrical socket, the kettle was plugged into an European style socket.
  Water did drain away rather slowly in the shower unit. I confess I spilt water
  on the floor and blanket one night while watching a film on my iPad, sorry.

Image:
  ship1.jpg
  Grill restaurant
  
Text:
  The staff work very hard and very long - our cabin steward Florian was pleasant
  and spoke to us, the entertainers were energetic, waiters talked as well as waited.
  We enjoyed eating in the Grill restaurant twice (a supplement was required) I'm a
  fan of French onion soup. The second time I ordered white wine which was red when
  poured into the glass - confusion caused by the same wine being available in both
  colours.

Image:
  ship2.jpg
  Waterfront restaurant
  
Text:
  We had our evening meals mainly in the Waterfront restaurant which was laid
  out nicely, the space broken up by dividers and walls, though in some seats you
  were trapped by other diners. We were on a table for 4 but mostly it was just
  Virginia and me - towards the end of the cruise we were bemused by a couple we
  hadn't seen who sat down with us, they had transferred from the second sitting. The
  first sitting was too early at 5.45pm, the second sitting too late at 8.30pm.

Image:
  ship4.jpg
  Hemingways
  
Text:
  Hemingways on deck 5 wasn't a bad place to sit and have a chocolate and almond
  muffin and read a book - though one waiter was over-talkative. We tried our hand at
  the quizzes, not winning anything but once or twice being within one point of the
  winners. I was proud to get "chad" and "Dorothy Parker" as answers. The quizzes are
  not good to take too seriously, you get people in groups of 6 or more pooling
  answers and some people apparently looking up stuff on their phones.

  The laundrettes are a decent size with plenty of space to be in. Unlike
  some cruise lines which shrink the laundrettes to get more cabins for more
  passengers.

Image:
  ship5.jpg
  Palladium Lounge

Text:
  The evening shows were held in the Palladium lounge but to get a decent view you
  had to be there an hour beforehand, otherwise you just saw the back of other
  people's heads. The shows we saw were average, pass the time, less staged than
  on other cruise lines.

  Overall less minor frills than other cruise lines, no chocolates in the cabin in the
  evening for instance. But these minor frills create an illusion of luxury which
  we like. The library was poor, not really sorted, books stacked in front of books.
  Spelling mistakes like vegeterian, or &pound;14,90 instead of &pound;14.90.
