Date:
	7 June 2002

Anchor:
  Mount Borradaile

Text:
	Arnhemland is a vast tract of land handed back to the Aboriginal people. To get into this area you need a permit from an Aboriginal Land Council. I had the privilege of spending a couple of nights at 
	[http://www.arnhemland-safaris.com/ Davidson's Arnhemland Safaris]
	camp at ''Mount Borradaile''. A great experience - one is off the beaten track, the Land Rovers drive over rocks and through forest, the electricity is shut off at night, but the feeling of community is intoxicating.

	There is a lot of wildlife to be seen but I was again grateful to the guides pointing out what I would otherwise have missed. I almost saw and snapped a Northern quoll but I was just too slow. A monitor lizard shinned up a tree like greased lightning. I met spiders which don't weave webs - like the jumping spider which jumps on its prey. Saw the rarest animal I've seen in the wild - Leichardt's grasshoppers (children of Namargon IIRC.)

	The bird life really gave me the feeling of being in the wild. What I might only hope to see in a cage in a zoo here was flying around in plain sight. Or walking on water like the jacana (so-called Jesus bird for this reason.) Being on a boat is a good way of seeing the birdlife. Only managed to snap the sulphur-crested cockatoos, not the red-tailed black cockatoos.

	Saw a lot of Aboriginal Cave Art - though wall art is a better description as the Aborigines did their art on any suitable surface (including on top of older art - the impression I got was that as soon as the picture was painted it had served its purpose - these were not galleries.) Their art served so many purposes - as warnings to avoid waking the rainbow serpent, as history of encounters with Macassan traders, as memories of extinct animals like the thylacine or Tasmanian tigers, as magic.

	The vegetation can be as lethal as the wildlife. Don't try making tea with the leaves from the ironwood tree.

Gallery:
	kangaroos.JPG
	A kangaroo family

	dingo.JPG
	An old dingo

	freshie.JPG
	A freshwater crocodile

	monitor.JPG
	A monitor lizard

	jumping_spider.JPG
	A jumping spider

	leichardts.JPG
	Leichardt's grasshopper

	leichardts2.JPG
	Another Leichardt's grasshopper

	masked_plover.JPG
	Masked plover

	sulphur_crested_cockatoo.JPG
	Sulphur-crested cockatoo

	comb_crested_magpie_geese.JPG
	Comb-crested magpie geese

	crowd_scene.JPG
	A crowd scene

	glossy_ibis.JPG
	Glossy ibis

	jacana.JPG
	A jacana (or Jesus bird)

	pratincole.JPG
	Australian pratincole

	white_ibis.JPG
	White ibis

	jabiru.JPG
	Jabiru taking off

	spoonbill.JPG
	Yellow-billed spoonbill

	grass_prints.JPG
	Grass prints Wall Art

	running_men.JPG
	Running men Wall Art

	rainbow_serpent.JPG
	The rainbow serpent is a key dreamtime figure

	macassan_ship.JPG
	Much more recent art - perhaps a Macassan ship

	thylacine.JPG
	A picture of a thylacine or Tasmanian tiger

	recent_burning.JPG
	Forest burnt 2-3 weeks ago

	paperbark.JPG
	Paperbark swamp

	quinine.JPG
	Quinine tree

	river_pandanus.JPG
	River pandanus

	soapbush.JPG
	Soapbush nibbled by leaf-cutter bees

	plane.JPG
	The plane which brought me to the camp

	rock_country.JPG
	The Rock country

	safari_camp.JPG
	The safari camp at Mount Borradaile

	my_tent.JPG
	My tent at the safari camp

	skinks.JPG
	Skinks on tent wall

	billabong_boat.JPG
	Billabong boat

	swimming_pool.JPG
	A swimming hole used by the camp

	billabong.JPG
	Looking over a billabong in Arnhemland
