Icon:
	p41_mount.JPG
	
Title:
    1:Introduction
    
Date:
	March 20th 2013

Text:
    My trip to Japan starts a long time ago.  Before the last minute
    panic with the iPad.  Before all the research I did on the
    web.  Before I booked the package tour in February.  Years before.

    My father is very much interested in Japanese culture.  He
    has been a major figure in the [https://www.britishorigami.info British Origami Society], and did his best
    to get my sister and I folding in paper too.  He let me stay up
    late one night to watch "Seven Samurai" by the famous Japanese film
    director Akira Kurosawa.  That influence has rubbed off on me, film
    is one of my major addictions.

    My father also had "Zen and the art of motorcycle maintenance" to
    lead me down another path.  He has written quite a few koans.  I do
    tend towards the mystical, the trancendental.  The mystic East they
    say, I suspect that mystic there means more hard to understand.

    My mother gave me money towards going to Japan when I first
    mentioned I was thinking of going.  I failed to make the
    trip while she was alive (one of my many failures).  So this trip
    is a necessary step for completeness.  This exact time was
    largely dictated by using up days of leave I had carried over from
    2012.  So I started surfing for package tours in Japan, feeling
    I couldn't organise the details myself.

    I chose [https://www.magicalexplorer.co.uk/region/japan Magical Japan] to go with.  Unless I were to do holidays
    with a range of travel agencies it's hard to compare.  They
    answered my silly questions, were nice enough to deal with.  I
    got them to book the flights but I think I was wrong to do so now - it 
    would have simpler for me to do so.  They had to see what was
    there, then check with me before they booked.

    I did a lot of research into the cities I was due to visit
    (Tokyo, Kyoto, and Osaka) trying to make I could navigate around
    in a strange land.  Strangely I had problems in practice getting around London!
    I collected Japanese phrases, maps, notes on using trains and
    underground systems.  I planned to make a lot of use of my iPad
    to hold the notes and documents on.

    And all too soon the departure day came along.  Virginia and I took
    a fish and chip takeaway round to Dad for lunch before I caught
    the National Express coach down to London on the following
    day.  But I got freaked out when I tried to set up the mail
    accounts on the iPad so I could stay in touch as I traversed the
    globe.  The iPad died . . . tried restoring a backup but the
    backup was corrupt.  So in the end I had to reinstall everything
    from scratch.

    But I was packed and readyish when Virginia dropped me at the
    Trumpington Park and Ride for the National Express coach to
    Stratford.  The coach wound its way through what seemed squalid
    backstreets of London, and eventually stopped deep in the urban
    jungle with no sign of Stratford [Stratford High Street DLR Station].  The driver did
    point me in a certain direction, and by following vague clues
    I followed a dubious path through a shopping mall.  And there was
    the station!  Finding platform 17 involved several trips in the
    lifts, I got used to using the lifts as I was encumbered with a 
    suitcase.  

    My [Oyster card] saw me to the Customs House DLR station but
    finding the right Ibis hotel was arduous.  I went to the only
    Ibis hotel I could see but after walking right round the building 
    to find the entrance I found I had the wrong one.  The desk
    clerk erroneously directed over the river so I had a haul
    over Victoria Docks before a kind lady in a winebar put me on
    the right track.  The right [https://www.accorhotels.com/gb/hotel-8712-ibis-styles-london-excel/index.shtml#origin=ibis Ibis hotel] was in stealth mode
    by a building site.  I was grateful for the bare room with
    cracked toilet seat.  Despite what it claimed on the website I booked on
    I discovered no airport shuttle!  A good clerk Khan did help
    me use their free Wifi, one plus.

    Had a wander out to see if there were any reasonably priced
    eateries at the [https://www.excel.london/ Excel centre], there weren't.  Did at least
    discover I had omitted to swipe my Oyster card at the end of my
    DLR journey when I saw someone using a strange device.  I resorted
    to a chicken burger at the hotel in a very dark restaurant,
    adding dollops of tomato ketchup so it had some nutritional
    value.  My stomach told me what it thought of the meal for
    some time afterwards!
