Title:
    Amsterdam to Tokyo
    
Anchor:
  Narita International Airport
  Grand Prince Hotel New Takanawa

Date:
    March 22nd 2013

Right:
	p01_welcome.JPG

Text:
    My case appeared as soon as I got through immigration!
    A big relief.  Getting through immigration was different to my usual experience,
    they took a retinal scan and index fingerprints.
    My days as a master criminal are numbered.  If I were one.  The customs
    man recognised my attempt at a Japanese hello (konnichiwa
    orcsomething like that).  Encouraging.  Even better was 
    Mush (that's what she said her name was) was there to greet
    me!  She guided me through the chaos to my senses of 
    [https://www.narita-airport.jp/en/ Narita airport], a sensory overload of Japanese faces and
    dialogue and signs.  Many of the faces were masked, one
    reason I heard later was for those who suffer from pollen
    allergy.  But even when I bought a 2-day ticket for the
    Tokyo metro the cashier avoided any chance of hand contact.
    Money was exchanged on a tray.

    Mush parked me in a meeting area for a while before despatching
    on the limousine bus to my hotel.  I realised her English
    wasn't that good, my Japanese is much worse of course and
    I don't think she realised I was trying to say a few phrases
    in her language.  I dozed off on the
    hour and half journey from Narita to Shinagawa in Tokyo for
    quite a while.  I was tired, Tokyo was 17 degrees C.  Mine 
    was the last hotel on the schedule of course.  But the
    [https://www.princehotels.com:443/newtakanawa/ Grand Prince Hotel New Takanawa] was a
    hot hotel, the poshest hotel I've ever stayed in.

Left:
    p03_toilet.JPG
    
Text:
    The hotel is full of well-dressed polite staff, one young damsel
    apologised as she left the lift I was to my and another
    Westerner's bemusement.  The rooms have digital signs outside
    for do not disturb or please make the room up.  The toilet
    seats are heated!  In fact the toilet is a major work of
    engineering which combines the normal lavatorial function with
    that of a bidet.  Use at your peril.  The room is heated to
    25 degrees C which I found a bit much but you can't have it all.
    Also in the room were two complimentary bottles which even got
    replenished each day of my stay!

    I did try to eat in the hotel that evening, contending with
    crowds of Japanese which appeared and disappeared by some
    quantum-mechanical principle I didn't understand.  But the
    half-hour wait was too much and so I resorted to pot noodles
    from an inhotel convenience store (and a very nice rice dessert of
    white glutinous rice ball containing black paste).  I had to
    contend with a very sophisticated water heater the room had been
    blessed with.  But in the end I did consume some noodles.

Right:
    p05_view.JPG
    
Text:
    As I went around this first night I passed through crowds
    admiring the cherry blossom in a garden between the three
    Grand Prince hotels on the site.  A camera
    crew were out with a crew and much equipment, the crane almost did
    for some of the guests.  It was a beautiful scene, tending towards
    the artificial.  Compared with London, Tokyo is beautifully
    laid out.  On the limousine bus I marvelled at a train riding
    a concrete track which flew over a river.  Buildings with
    gravity defying shapes catch the eye.  Everywhere looks tidy.
