Title:
    Day trip to Nikko

Date:
    March 24th 2013
    
Right:
    p23_breakfast.JPG

Text:
    More of a scrum this morning at the Marmolada, a throng of
    Chinese tourists who even had vouchers!  But I can learn from the
    budget travellers, the convenience store in the hotel was very
    busy last evening with them buying quick meals and getting them
    microwaved there and then.  I'm compensating by stoking up with a
    for course breakfast.  

    A colder day, and I slept very badly but the guide for our Nikko
    tour called did her diffident best to keep us amused.  She launched
    into an explanation of the overhead controls for air-conditioning
    only for the driver to say they didn't do anything, it was underfloor
    warm air heating he controlled.  She passed out leaflets and invited
    us to memorise where we were going.  Bravely she tried to teach an
    uncooperative bus of snoozing passengers a Japanese song "Momijo".
    I would be no great shakes as a tour guide I'm sure.  She did teach
    me some things, the much prized cherry blossom bloomed in Tokyo
    unusually early thanks to an unexpected warm period.  Sake the drink
    and the Japanese for salmon are homophones.

Left:
    p28_shrine.JPG

Text:
    Our first stop was the 
    [https://www.japan.travel/en/spot/1482 Toshugu shrine] which is a major temple complex
    based on the founder of the Tokugawa shogunate.  It was a very 
    popular spot on this Sunday, and our coach crawled into the site.
    The site mixes tourism, so there were Japanese there I'm sure who
    saw it as an outing primarily, but also religion so they queued
    to clap hands to notify the deity and throw money over the
    lintel (Ieyasu is 
    worshipped as a Shinto deity), and business (good luck charms cost
    money).  There are a number of very photogenic buildings there,
    a 5 storey hanging pagoda, carvings of monkeys and sleeping cats.

    If you took your shoes off you could see a shrine with a hundred
    dragons in the roof, and another ceiling with a crying dragon.
    The demonstrator hit wooden blocks together in one place,
    no echo - then hit them in the right place and we had an echo.
    He then I think went into a sales pitch for the shrine incense
    products.  A guess.  Another temple priest with gusto rang a
    giant drum using a suspended wooden bar.  May have been to mark
    the hours.

Right:
    p35_villa.JPG

Text:
    We had udon noodles for lunch, with the components of the meal
    in different pots.  I was bemused by what we had to do with that.
    The duck plus noodles in the heated pot one ate, the shrimp and
    veg one could dip in the sauce and eat, there was rice too.  I
    enjoyed the experience!

    We went to the [https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3808.html Tamozawa Imperial Villa], an
	old residence of the Emperor, and got an impression
    of how it was in a traditional Japanese house with sliding paper
    panels.  We got cold feet as it was another remove shoes job, and
    the floor was definitely without underfloor heating.  A lovely
    garden, and there was an intriguing chain of small cups hanging
    from the eaves down which raindrops apparently cascade.

Left:
    p37_kegon.JPG

Text:
    We saw [https://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3812.html Kegon waterfall] which wasn't a certain sighting because of the
    general fogginess.  Amiko encouraged us by saying we could hear
    the waterfall even if we couldn't see it.  And there would always be the
    souvenir shop.

    Journey back was slow due to a 20km tailback on the Expressway to
    Tokyo due to an accident.  We stopped at a service station and I
    was relieved to find a clean free toilet in all that crush.  
    Wouldn't in the UK in a similar situation.
