Anchor:
  Dover Cruise Terminal 1

Icon:
	waiting.JPG
	
Date:
	Saturday, 30 July 2011

Text:
	Tabitha and Amelia safely stowed in 
	[https://www.countrycattery.com/ Country Cattery].
	Check. Decrepit suitcase repaired with sticky tape. Check. 
	Passports and tickets in the plastic folder in the laptop bag. 
	Check. Boiler turned off. Check. Yes it's time for another cruise! 
	This time with 
	[Fred Olsen] rather than
	[P&O]. We were going to go to 
	the Canary Islands in November, but my Dad decided on one last 
	holiday to see the Hermitage in St Petersburg. So Virginia and I 
	also booked on cruise W1111 to the Baltics to help him along.

	Dad hired friendly talkative Mr Nelson senior to drive us all to 
	Dover on Saturday July 30th, and to collect us at the end of the 
	cruise. Both coming and going there were problems at the Dartford 
	Crossing so not smooth. Mr Nelson collecting us from Dover at 10am 
	on August 11th didn't work so well as we had been waiting nearly 
	two hours in poor conditions. That contributed to the flu I went 
	down with after the cruise. But I'm getting ahead of myself here!

	We arrived at Dover Cruise Terminal 1 to find it was an old railway
	station! Like stepping back in time, and perhaps cruising is about 
	stepping back in time, its main attraction. Back to the days when time 
	moved slower, and there was space for friendliness. A certain amount of 
	queueing ensued at the cruise terminal, less than at an airport. We were 
	attacked by the ship's photographers as we boarded the Black Watch as 
	expected. 
	
	Our cases and us both arrived at cabin 5073 on the Main Deck, and we 
	were ready to sail! Well ready for the first entertainment of the 
	cruise, the muster with life-jackets. Crew members we would see in other 
	guises shouted off cabin numbers like jobbers in a stock exchange as 
	they checked we hadn't lost anyone yet.

Gallery:
	tabitha.JPG
	Tabitha in her holiday 'home'

	dover1.JPG
	Dover cruise terminal 1

	dover2.JPG
	The cruise terminal was an old railway station

	obstacle.JPG
	The obstacle course to board the Black Watch
	
	cabin_door.JPG
	Our cabin's door

	cabin_open.JPG
	Our cabin 5073

	cabin_ginny.JPG
	Virginia makes herself comfortable

	cabin_shower.JPG
	The shower in cabin 5073

	cabin_basin.JPG
	The wash basin in cabin 5073

	waiting.JPG
	Waiting to 'set sail' from Dover
