Title:
	Baltics cruise

Anchor:
  Dover Cruise Terminal 1
  Tivoli Gardens
  The Little Mermaid
  Vasa Museum
  Lahemaa National Park
  Viru Bog
  Peterhof
  State Hermitage Museum
  Church of the Spilled Blood
  Prora
  Fregatten Jylland

Icon:
	peter6.JPG
	
Date:
	Saturday, 30 July 2011

Text:
	Tabitha and Amelia safely stowed in 
	[https://www.countrycattery.com/ Country Cattery].
	Check. Decrepit suitcase repaired with sticky tape. Check. 
	Passports and tickets in the plastic folder in the laptop bag. 
	Check. Boiler turned off. Check. Yes it's time for another cruise! 
	This time with 
	[Fred Olsen] rather than
	[P&O]. We were going to go to 
	the Canary Islands in November, but my Dad decided on one last 
	holiday to see the Hermitage in St Petersburg. So Virginia and I 
	also booked on cruise W1111 to the Baltics to help him along.

	Dad hired friendly talkative Mr Nelson senior to drive us all to 
	Dover on Saturday July 30th, and to collect us at the end of the 
	cruise. Both coming and going there were problems at the Dartford 
	Crossing so not smooth. Mr Nelson collecting us from Dover at 10am 
	on August 11th didn't work so well as we had been waiting nearly 
	two hours in poor conditions. That contributed to the flu I went 
	down with after the cruise. But I'm getting ahead of myself here!

	We arrived at Dover Cruise Terminal 1 to find it was an old railway
	station! Like stepping back in time, and perhaps cruising is about 
	stepping back in time, its main attraction. Back to the days when time 
	moved slower, and there was space for friendliness. A certain amount of 
	queueing ensued at the cruise terminal, less than at an airport. We were 
	attacked by the ship's photographers as we boarded the Black Watch as 
	expected. 
	
	Our cases and us both arrived at cabin 5073 on the Main Deck, and we 
	were ready to sail! Well ready for the first entertainment of the 
	cruise, the muster with life-jackets. Crew members we would see in other 
	guises shouted off cabin numbers like jobbers in a stock exchange as 
	they checked we hadn't lost anyone yet.

	We arrived late in Copenhagen on the Monday due to a power outage on
	board ship just before we went through the Kiel Canal. This was the only 
	real hiccup on the cruise. So instead of the planned excursion we got a 
	tour of the Copenhagen waterways (very like Amsterdam), a view of the 
	backside of the Little Mermaid, and 2 hours in the Tivoli Gardens. 
	Gardens implied to me something in the garden line to look at. We only 
	found crowds of people, eateries, amusement rides, and flies. Oh by the 
	entrance there was a shop where you could make a teddy bear to your own 
	specifications.

	Next stop was Stockholm where we saw the recovered 300-year old "Vasa" ship which sank on its maiden voyage. The king of the time commanded more guns, so they added an extra gun deck making the ship top-heavy, usual management story. We also went on a tour of old Stockholm, quite crowded. The guide spoke about the troubled history of Sweden, and took us to the square where the Danish King beheaded scores of Swedish aristocrats.

	I enjoyed the visit to Estonia on Thursday more. From Tallinn we went to the Lahemaa Forest and Viru Bog. The guide told us about how the USSR ruled Estonia, how Stalin tried to suppress the Estonian language which is close to Finnish, how Stalin took away all the boats lest Estonians flee away by sea, and how Stalin deported Estonian women and children as part of his ethnic planning. The walkways in the Viru Bog were a bit dicey, but the tower offered a good view over the restful peat bog scenes. We had a bite to eat later in a cafe near the sea which had a stuffed owl clutching a stuffed mouse hanging up in one corner of the bar.

	The furthest point on the cruise, and the high spot, was St Petersburg. The city is a blend of Western grand architecture, Orthodox cathedrals with their almost Disney cupolas, and Soviet era bleakness. We stopped a night there, on the first day went to Peterhof where the fountains are really something, water and gold paint sparkling. Not so busy as we were marched through the palace first, coach parties are allowed in first before ordinary visitors. Peterhof Palace had pictures of a Russian naval victory for which they blew up a real frigate so the artist could see what an exploding ship looked like!

	The second day in St Petersburg we did a private tour so Dad could see the
	[Hermitage]. The Hermitage is massive, several palaces with interconnecting walkways but it all feels one inside. Unusually one can take pictures of the pictures inside. Dad was worn out after an hour or so but he got to see Van Goghs and Monets and Cezannes. We had a good guide and driver who were kindly flexible, we had a photo tour of St Petersburg including the Church of the Spilled Blood which is wondrous to see. We did get taken to a souvenir shop and felt rather outnumbered by the staff, but left not too impoverished. We did need souvenirs. The smaller Russian dolls cost more as they have more dolls inside them.

	Last but one stop on the Monday was Ruegen Island in Germany - was looking forward to seeing an Oceanarium but not enough other cruisers wanted to so that got cancelled. Instead we had a disappointing tour. We passed by the Prora Colossus which would have been interesting to stop at (this is a vast holiday complex Hitler built but never used, the longest building in the world.)
	
	Last stop Aarhus. We went with Dad to see the 
	[http://www.fregatten-jylland.dk/ Frigate Jutland] in Ebeltoft but sadly Dad couldn't manage the steps up to get into the boat itself. The trip which took in a neolithic stone circle got back late to the ship which a number of the tours did. One rationally knows the ship won't leave with you, but I always worry until I'm back on board!

	A Fred Olsen cruise felt more informal than a P&O cruise to me. The activities were very similar from quizzes through to dressing up for some of the evenings. Don't remember P&O having nautical dress themes though. We did get a very good show from the crew of Filipino / Thai / Indonesian dance and song. In addition to shows from professional performers of course. There were talks on board, someone with a police background gave interesting talks on memory and illusions and cons. For culture we had a harpist which was rewarding, she explained that harpists don't use the little finger which I didn't know. She arrived at the terminal the same time we did.

	We sometimes ate in the main restaurant, sometimes in the Garden Cafe buffet. Dad preferred the buffet in the Garden Cafe even though he had to painfully maneouvre around with his sticks. Vanilla sauce always seemed to be very like custard. I got quite into porridge with maple syrup in the mornings. The food didn't always agree with me, I hesitate to blame Fred Olsen for that. Unlike P&O at breakfast and lunch we got to choose which table to sit at - we felt that P&O's showing us to a table helped break the ice of British reserve. The staff we met were very pleasant, and very hard-working.

	I tried each day to do 5 laps of the ship (a mile.) We also took the laptop and kept in touch with Wifi access (&pound;5 for 25 minutes.) Bottled water on board was expensive, cheapest way to get was to buy when going on an excursion when it was only &pound;1 not &pound;1.40. Very necessary to carefully check the onship accounts - both we and the people we sat with for the evening meals had problems with amounts for the excursions. The reliance on paper forms and people getting the cabin number right may cause errors.
	
	Got through quite a few books on the cruise. Liked Tim Power's "Last Call" and Garth Nix's "TroubleTwisters" (jointly written with Sean Williams.) Virginia took her Kindle as did Dad who seemed to be trying to sell Kindles to other passengers! I also wasted some time taking pictures of the ship for making a virtual tour or game based on the Black Watch. Not sure how far I'll get.
	
	The seas were very kind. Only had troubled waters and no going out on deck on the last day. I'm happy to do more cruises - just not next week!

Gallery:
	tabitha.JPG
	Tabitha in her holiday 'home'

	dover1.JPG
	Dover cruise terminal 1

	dover2.JPG
	The cruise terminal was an old railway station

	obstacle.JPG
	The obstacle course to board the Black Watch
	
	cabin_door.JPG
	Our cabin's door

	cabin_open.JPG
	Our cabin 5073

	cabin_ginny.JPG
	Virginia makes herself comfortable

	cabin_shower.JPG
	The shower in cabin 5073

	cabin_basin.JPG
	The wash basin in cabin 5073

	waiting.JPG
	Waiting to 'set sail' from Dover

	laundrette.JPG
	The laundrette on our Main Deck
	
	laundrette2.JPG
	The machines inside the laundrette

	at_sea.JPG
	All at sea to Copenhagen

	copen1.JPG
	Arrival at Copenhagen

	copen_theatre.JPG
	New theatre in Copenhagen

	copen_canal.JPG
	Amsterdam-like canals in Copenhagen

	copen_spiral.JPG
	Copenhagen Church with its own helter-skelter

	tivoli1.JPG
	Tivoli Gardens in Copenhagen

	tivoli_ginny.JPG
	Virginia in Tivoli Gardens

	tivoli_me.JPG
	Me in Tivoli Gardens

	tivoli_balloon.JPG
	Balloon vendor Tivoli Gardens

	bear1.JPG
	Build your own bear shop in Tivoli Gardens

	bear2.JPG
	Available costumes for your bear
	
	bear3.JPG
	The shop was doing good business

	tivoli2.JPG
	Dusk in Tivoli Gardens
	
	glentanar.JPG
	The Glentanar Restaurant on the Black Watch

	braemar_l.JPG
	Braemar lounge looking towards the restaurant

	braemar_c1.JPG
	Braemar Cafe on the Black Watch

	braemar_c2.JPG
	Inside the Braemar Cafe

	lido.JPG
	The Lido Bar on the Black Watch

	orchid.JPG
	The Orchid Room on the Black Watch

	harp.JPG
	Some culture at least on the Black Watch

	glasses.JPG
	Glasses laid out for the Captain's Welcome Cocktail party

	stock1.JPG
	Black Watch in Stockholm

	stock_vasa.JPG
	The Vasa ship in Stockholm

	stock_fount.JPG
	Fountain in Stockholm

	stock2.JPG
	Buildings in old part of Stockholm

	neptune.JPG
	Neptune Lounge on Black Watch

	boat_name.JPG
	Boats have names

	tall.JPG
	Docked in Tallinn, Estonia

	tall_coach.JPG
	Coach in Tallinn, Estonia

	tall_forest.JPG
	The Lahemaa Forest in Estonia

	tall_forest2.JPG
	Lahemaa Forest

	tall_viru.JPG
	The Viru Bog in Lahemaa Forest

	tall_tower.JPG
	Lookout Tower in Viru Bog

	tall_tower2.JPG
	Tower construction

	tall_tower3.JPG
	View from tower in Viru Bog

	tall_hostelry.JPG
	Hostelry in Lahemaa Forest area

	tall_menu.JPG
	Estonian menu

	tall_beach.JPG
	Lahemaa Forest beach

	tall_house.JPG
	House by the Lahemaa cost

	tall_house2.JPG
	House by the Lahemaa cost

	peter1.JPG
	Peterhof Palace in St Petersburg

	peter2.JPG
	Peterhof Palace

	peter3.JPG
	The fountains at Peterhof

	peter4.JPG
	Getting the fountains ready

	peter5.JPG
	The fountains turned on

	peter_ginny.JPG
	Virginia at Peterhof

	peter_me.JPG
	Me at Peterhof

	peter6.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter7.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter8.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter9.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter10.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter11.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter12.JPG
	Peterhof Palace

	peter13.JPG
	Peterhof Palace

	arch.JPG
	Narva Triumphal Arch in St Petersburg

	garden_cafe.JPG
	Garden Cafe on board the Black Watch

	herm1.JPG
	One small part of the Hermitage in St Petersburg

	spilled.JPG
	Church of the Spilled Blood in St Petersburg

	herm2.JPG
	Inside the Hermitage

	herm3.JPG
	Hermitage chandelier

	herm4.JPG
	Hermitage chandelier

	herm5.JPG
	Hermitage hall

	herm6.JPG
	Hermitage chandelier

	herm7.JPG
	One can take pictures of pictures in the Hermitage

	herm8.JPG
	Art in the Hermitage

	herm9.JPG
	Inside the Hermitage

	herm10.JPG
	Matisse painting in the Hermitage

	neva.JPG
	Restaurant on the Neva River in St Petersburg

	isaac.JPG
	St Isaac's Cathedral in St Petersburg

	private.JPG
	Our private car tour in St Petersburg

	isaac2.JPG
	St Isaac's Cathedral in St Petersburg

	rostral.JPG
	Rostral Column in St Petersburg

	st_petersburg.JPG
	St Petersburg building

	on_sail.JPG
	Black Watch on sail

	card_room.JPG
	Card room on the Black Watch

	marina.JPG
	Marina Theatre on the Black Watch

	main1.JPG
	Main Deck shops

	main2.JPG
	Main Deck reception

	aarhus.JPG
	Aarhus welcome committe
	
	neolithic.JPG
	Neolithic amusement centre in Jutland

	frigate1.JPG
	Frigate Jutland in Ebeltoft in Denmark

	frigate2.JPG
	The frigate hedged its bets between then wind and propeller power

	frigate3.JPG
	Different ropes for the frigate

	frigate4.JPG
	Workshop for the frigate

	frigate5.JPG
	Stern of the frigate Jutland

	horizon.JPG
	The Black Watch heads for the horizon

	glentanar2.JPG
	The Glentanar Restaurant on the Black Watch

	braemar_coffee.JPG
	Braemar Room coffee and tea dispensing area

	pipers_bar.JPG
	Pipers Bar on the Black Watch

	neptune2.JPG
	Neptune Lounge on the Black Watch

	rear.JPG
	View from rear of Black Watch

	braemar_sign.JPG
	Braemar Room

	rough_seas.JPG
	All but the last day of the cruise we had quiet seas
