Title:
	St Petersburg

Anchor:
  Peterhof
  State Hermitage Museum
  Church of the Spilled Blood

Date:
	6th August 2011

Text:
	The furthest point on the cruise, and the high spot, was St Petersburg. The city is a blend of Western grand architecture, Orthodox cathedrals with their almost Disney cupolas, and Soviet era bleakness. We stopped a night there, on the first day went to Peterhof where the fountains are really something, water and gold paint sparkling. Not so busy as we were marched through the palace first, coach parties are allowed in first before ordinary visitors. Peterhof Palace had pictures of a Russian naval victory for which they blew up a real frigate so the artist could see what an exploding ship looked like!

	The second day in St Petersburg we did a private tour so Dad could see the
	[Hermitage]. The Hermitage is massive, several palaces with interconnecting walkways but it all feels one inside. Unusually one can take pictures of the pictures inside. Dad was worn out after an hour or so but he got to see Van Goghs and Monets and Cezannes. We had a good guide and driver who were kindly flexible, we had a photo tour of St Petersburg including the Church of the Spilled Blood which is wondrous to see. We did get taken to a souvenir shop and felt rather outnumbered by the staff, but left not too impoverished. We did need souvenirs. The smaller Russian dolls cost more as they have more dolls inside them.

Gallery:
	peter1.JPG
	Peterhof Palace in St Petersburg

	peter2.JPG
	Peterhof Palace

	peter3.JPG
	The fountains at Peterhof

	peter4.JPG
	Getting the fountains ready

	peter5.JPG
	The fountains turned on

	peter_ginny.JPG
	Virginia at Peterhof

	peter_me.JPG
	Me at Peterhof

	peter6.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter7.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter8.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter9.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter10.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter11.JPG
	Peterhof fountains

	peter12.JPG
	Peterhof Palace

	peter13.JPG
	Peterhof Palace

	arch.JPG
	Narva Triumphal Arch in St Petersburg

	garden_cafe.JPG
	Garden Cafe on board the Black Watch

	herm1.JPG
	One small part of the Hermitage in St Petersburg

	spilled.JPG
	Church of the Spilled Blood in St Petersburg

	herm2.JPG
	Inside the Hermitage

	herm3.JPG
	Hermitage chandelier

	herm4.JPG
	Hermitage chandelier

	herm5.JPG
	Hermitage hall

	herm6.JPG
	Hermitage chandelier

	herm7.JPG
	One can take pictures of pictures in the Hermitage

	herm8.JPG
	Art in the Hermitage

	herm9.JPG
	Inside the Hermitage

	herm10.JPG
	Matisse painting in the Hermitage

	neva.JPG
	Restaurant on the Neva River in St Petersburg

	isaac.JPG
	St Isaac's Cathedral in St Petersburg

	private.JPG
	Our private car tour in St Petersburg

	isaac2.JPG
	St Isaac's Cathedral in St Petersburg

	rostral.JPG
	Rostral Column in St Petersburg

	st_petersburg.JPG
	St Petersburg building
