Date:
	March 16th 2018

Anchor:
  Aysgarth Falls Hotel
  Jervaulx Abbey
  Wensleydale Creamery
  White Scar Cave
  Ribblehead Viaduct
  Richmond Georgian Theatre
  Dales Countryside Museum
  Bolton Castle
  Middleham Castle

Title:
	A visit to North Yorkshire

Right:
  P1380601.JPG

Text:
	We're just back from a visit to Aysgarth in North Yorkshire. A lovely
	area, pastoral and peaceful. Dry stone walls divided up the snow streaked hills.
	Sheep grazed the hills. Villages retained their age-old character. The Aysgarth
	falls could be heard from the well-appointed [http://www.yorkshire-cottages.info/yorkshire-dales/wensleydale-area/robin-hill-uk2079?range=0 holiday bungalow] we were in,
	we walked from the bungalow and saw three sets of falls. A great area for
	walkers not that we count as such. We dined twice at the [Aysgarth Falls Hotel]
	which had a peculier backwards clock, and books around the walls.

	The weather wasn't brilliant - it rained quite a bit, we had to riskily drive
	through a flooded road to get home. The Satnav wasn't that trustworthy, it
	wasn't sure where the bungalow was, and
	it took us down a one-track country lane which was blocked when we tried to
	see [Fountains Abbey]. Very stressful reversing back to where we could turn
	around. The weather smiled for once as we gave up, and instead saw the ruins of
	[Jervaulx Abbey], which were impressive hinting of when it was a major
	monastery.

	Also worth seeing was the [Wensleydale Creamery], not just for its Wallace
	and Gromit connection. Cheese seemed to be an ingredient of all the dishes in the
	restaurant! The cheese production seemed to be a factory process, but they
	produce a lot of cheese.

Left:
	P1380638.JPG

Text:
	We had a good visit to the [White Scar Cave], seeing the Ribblehead Viaduct
	en route. The safety helmets were a must in the cave, particularly for the
	two low sections. The cave was wetter than others I've been in, a lot of the
	path was over a stream, there was a noisy waterfall, water was running over
	the rocks beside the path. The Sword of Damocles stalactite was held up
	by string and glue as someone deliberately broke it on the first day of
	public access!

	We also appreciated a visit to the [Richmond Georgian Theatre], a bit of
	panicky rush getting there as parking was more than difficult in Richmond.
	The tour was enlightening about the revolting habits of theatre-goers in
	that era. A view into the past. We also saw the [Dales Countryside Museum],
	a lot of detail about the history there. I was tempted and fell into the
	sin of buying a teapot at [Ceramic Inspirations in Leyburn], and we also got
	a few chocolates at the [Inspired Chocolate] place next door.

Right:
	P1380577.JPG

Text:
	We did see a couple of castles - [Bolton Castle] and [Middleham Castle].
	The ruins weren't inspiring for us on our visit, though the
	muddy conditions and bird droppings didn't help.

	There was some drama before we set off. We did our best but Amelia seized
	an opening and hid in the spare room bed. Virginia used the hoover to force
	her out leading to a traumatised cat which took refuge inside a cat tree!
	We had to tilt the cat tree over to capture Amelia.
	My packing wasn't perfect either - this time I forgot leads to recharge my razor
	and a new vest! Lists to take are similar to software testing. You build
	up software tests based on what you think need testing, as well as
	problems found. So I've expanded my to take lists based on what I've forgotten.
	
