Date:
	February 22nd 2018

Title:
	My father

Image:
	cringleford.JPG
  Dad at Cringleford

Text:
	My father John Sidney Smith died this evening. Oscar Wilde quipped that "All women become like their mothers.
	That is their tragedy. No man does, and that is his".
	For me there's a certain truth in that.

	My father was a major figure not only in [http://www.britishorigami.info/ British Origami] circles
	but worldwide. See an Origami focussed [http://origami.me.uk/john-smith-rip/ obituary].
	He not only folded models, knew key people, but also contributed to
	the theory of origami and its use in areas like therapy. I can just about fold a paper
	aeroplane unaided.

	My father had taste and talent in music. He won a prize for playing on the cello at school
	though he favoured instruments like the acoustic guitar and mandolin. Despite my
	parents' efforts I failed on a range of musical devices from recorder through clarinet to balalaika
	(the last after being
	taken to hear a Russian balalaika orchestra visiting Norwich).

Image:
	wedding.jpg
  Dad at our wedding

Text:
	My father had taste and talent in art. He won a prize at age 17.
	He was drawing pictures up to the end of his life.
	He could talk wisely about Turner and van Gogh and Bauhaus. I'm proud to have some of his artwork on
	our walls. I never got further than painting by numbers. At art lessons in school I was
	one of those put in a corner and told to play with modelling clay.

	My father was a keen photographer, who was not afraid of digital image
	manipulation. He started an audio-visual group at one camera club, and worked hard on
	producing multimedia presentations. I remember fetching him back from his visits to the
	Cambridge camera club. I like taking pictures, but am really grateful for auto-focus.


Image:
	dad.jpg
  Dad in later years

Text:
	He worked hard to provide for his family. He studied statistics in evening
	classes which took him out of a drawing office to a marketing role in Vauxhall Motors,
	and then to working for Reckitts and Colmans in Norwich (which is why I grew up
	there). He edited the Institute of Statisticians journal at one stage.
	Statistics was one of the mathematical disciplines that stymied me
	when I read maths at university. I wish now I had studied a language but that's
	another matter.

	He worked in the early days of computers at Colmans in Norwich. He got me first
	programming on Texas Instruments calculators, and then urged me into
	my computing career, seeing computers as the coming wave. I am grateful
	for his pushing, software has been a good career for me.

	I remember the special occasions of my childhood like the cinema forays. We would
	dine at a Chinese restaurant by the multi-storey car park, on exotic dishes like
	birds nests. And then we would see films like "2001", "Battle of Britain", and
	the "Sound of Music". For me seeing a film at the cinema is still special. He
	introduced me to films like Kurosawa's "Seven Samurai", and Jacques Tati's
	"Playtime" and "Traffic". He expanded my horizons.

Image:
	sunset.JPG
  Dad on a mobility scooter at Anglesey Abbey

Text:
	He also introduced me to Eastern thought like Zen and koans, to the deeply
	significant Winnie the Pooh books, and Lewis Carroll's playful works. To
	Science Fiction like Asimov and Clarke, to detective fiction like Edmund Crispin
	and Dorothy Sayers. We had magazines like the Scientific American and New Scientist.
	The latter had an article on the Oriental board game Go once, and my father got us
	playing that. I'm still playing Go forty plus years later.

	We had some great caravan holidays - ranging from being stuck in muddy fields on
	Mull to nearly floating down the river at Freshwater East. These were still
	early days for caravaning, we camped in rough fields at times. caravan turning over once.
	We also voyaged to Switzerland and America and Italy and Yugoslavia. For these
	holidays he would marvellous scrapbooks of pictures and tickets and descriptions.
	My tribute to those scrapbooks is this website.
